Amy: Previously on "heartland":
- Are you going to the wedding?
- If you're going, I'll go.
- Do you see my sister
over there?
Do you think you could dance
with her?
- Sir, you're bleeding!
- That's my wife's blood!
- No, you've been shot!
Doctor: Your husband developed
a condition
Known as deep vein thrombosis.
We lost him.
- I love you, ty.
(sledgehammer thuds echo,
beams crash)
♪♪♪
(birds chirp)
(bee buzzes)
♪ don't we look away ♪
♪ as we grow colder ♪
(truck rumbles)
♪ in a thousand
different ways ♪
♪ we don't need to live a lie ♪
♪ when love blows over ♪
♪ 'cause we realize
it's not too late ♪
Lyndy: Mommy?
- Yes, sweetheart?
- I told harley
we'd go riding today.
- You did?
- Yep, so we better hurry!
- Oh, uh...
I just have to make one quick
stop first, all right?
- Okay.
- (laughs)
(truck rumbles)
(muffled music plays)
(engine shuts off)
- fill it with regular, please.
- Mm-hmm.
- What do you say when
we get home
You show gg all your new
school clothes?
- Gg doesn't know anything
about clothes.
- Well, I think maybe
he still wants to see them.
- Okay, mommy.
- (chuckles)
(squeegee squeaks)
(ominous music plays)
(squeaks speed up)
Lyndy: (distantly) mommy?
(soft whoosh)
(normal) mommy!
- Um, yes, sweetheart?
- Can I have my water, please?
- Yeah, for sure.
Here you go.
♪♪♪
(door shuts)
lyndy: Gg!
- Hello, honey,
how did the shopping go?
- Great!
- Yeah?
- I got new clothes for school.
- You did?
Well, you better show me.
- I'll be right back, grandpa.
- Yeah.
Oh my gosh, look at that
beautiful shirt,
And I love the colour.
You are gonna look so grown up.
Mmmuah!
(door clicks open)
(door creaks shut)
(drawer rasps open,
papers rustle)
- (sighs heavily)
(papers rustle)
(shaky sigh,
drawer rasps shut)
(newspaper rustles,
tense sigh)
(ominous music builds)
♪♪♪
(inhales sharply)
(foliage rustles)
(ominous music builds)
Ty: Amy!
Ungh!
(shot blasts and echoes)
(gasps sharply)
(breathing hard)
♪♪♪
♪ and at the break of day ♪
♪ you sank into your dream ♪
♪ you dreamer ♪
♪ oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪
(birds chirp)
- Wow, your friends from
new york are awfully generous.
Look at all this stuff!
- I know.
- I'm surprised you even told
them there was a wedding.
- Well, I didn't.
Caleb posted it on social media
(tim chuckles)
And so, now, everybody knows,
the whole world,
That our non-wedding
was actually a wedding.
- (clucks tongue) well, there
truly is no privacy anymore,
Is there?
- No.
It never ceases to amaze me
what people post.
So there's this new guest
at the dude ranch today,
And she calls herself
a "birdfluencer."
- (scoffs)
- right? I know.
But she's actually
a pretty good photographer,
And she has 20,000 followers.
- Well, 20,000 and one, now.
- No, I'm just doing research.
So lou asked me
if I would fill in for her
When she's away
at that conference.
- I hope you didn't feel
obligated.
- No, of course not.
It was a little last minute,
so I was momentarily annoyed,
But... I've realized ever since
the cattle drive
That I need to make more
of an effort with lou.
I wanna stay on her good side.
- Well, I've been doing that
since she was born. (laughs)
- All right, I guess I should
go over there and...
Make sure everything's ready.
- No!
- Wish me luck.
- You don't need it.
You're the most overqualified
dude ranch manager of all time.
You got this.
- Thank you!
- You're sure the guy you saw
was grady?
- Yeah, I am.
- Why isn't he locked up
somewhere with his pal,
J.D. Werth?
- I don't know.
- (sighs heavily)
So, what do you wanna do?
- For now, nothing.
(screen door opens)
- I'm ready!
- (sighs)
Okay, sweetheart.
Let's go get harley tacked up.
(footsteps recede)
♪♪♪
(door opens)
- Hey, you two!
Thank you for your hard work
in cleaning up the dude ranch;
It looks great over there.
- Thanks!
The welcome refreshments
are pretty much good to go.
- All right!
You are both amazing.
- I'm glad you think so,
But frankly, our talents are
being wasted on menial labour,
Not to mention the pay
is pathetically low.
I think a 20% increase
in our wages
Would only be fair.
- Uh... Okay, well, that's not
really my department.
I'm just filling in for lou,
So you're gonna have to ask her
when she gets back.
Um, where does your mom
keep the extra linens?
- Uh, just down the hall.
- Okay. All right.
I'll be right back.
- You know my mom's in charge,
right?
There's no point asking jessica
for a raise.
- I know, but I'm just sick
and tired
Of being taken for granted
all the time.
I'm taking a break.
- She was just starting to get
her bearings, and now this.
- Yeah. Yeah, the timing
couldn't be worse.
- How is she?
- I don't know.
Numb, more than anything.
Hey, uh, what're you doin'?!
- I'm gonna make sure amy never
runs into grady ever again.
- Hey, just hold up now!
You need to take a breath
and think about this
Before you do something
you're gonna regret!
- I can't sit around
doing nothin', jack.
(door clicks open)
you coming?
(door bangs shuts,
engine turns)
(truck rumbles)
(hooves clop)
(truck rumbles,
harley nickers)
- Let's go, mommy!
(spartan grunts)
- yeah. Uh, you hangin' on?
Okay.
(birds chirp, broom rasps)
(car rumbles up,
tires crunch on gravel)
(engine shuts off,
doors open)
(birds chirp)
Jessica: Hi, welcome
to heartland.
I'm jessica.
- Hi, I'm rick.
I work with lou
at the mayor's office.
- Ah, yes, of course.
I've heard so much about you.
- And this is my mother,
gladys.
- I was just looking at your
bird photography online.
It is beautiful.
- That's kind of you to say.
Richard, do you really
expect me to stay here?
- Just give it a chance,
mother.
- Jessica, what do you think
of a son
Who let his mother stay
with him at his home?
It's not enough
that I endured
Twelve hours of labour
Bringing him into this world,
But I've also flown
all the way across the pond
Just to see him.
- It's just for a few days,
Until the house renos
are finished.
- As I recall,
you were doing house renos
The last time I visited.
You made me stay
at that dreary motel.
- It was literally the most
expensive hotel in banff.
- And wasn't carl away
on a business trip then, too?
- Carl's work is very
time-consuming.
But he does wish--
- don't--
(birdsong)
If I'm not mistaken...
that is a pine grosbeak.
You may as well go, richard.
I'll be fine here.
At least the birds
won't abandon me.
(birds chirp)
- Your mom seems... Really nice.
- She's, uh, terrifying.
I love her, but there's only
so much I can take.
The timing of our house renos
was no accident,
Nor was my husband's
business trip.
Well, uh...
Thanks so much, jessica,
For looking after her,
and good luck.
(birds chirp)
(car doors slam)
- There's my swing!
(low whoosh)
Ty: When I saw these trees,
I knew they were perfect
for a swing.
You can basically see
everything from here.
- (laughs)
- it's an incredible view.
(low whoosh)
- (laughs)
Which way do you wanna go,
sweetheart?
- This way!
- (laughs) okay.
(spartan grunts)
(hooves thud)
(birds chirp)
- Gladys?
So, in the morning,
I will stop by
With an organic,
locally-sourced breakfast.
We offer trail rides,
if you'd like to book one,
And we also have an art market
on the weekend,
If that's something that
you're interested in.
- The only reason I agreed
to stay here
Was because lou promised me
A sighting of
a mountain bluebird.
My followers are very eager
to see the photos,
And I simply cannot
disappoint them.
Ornithologists can be
a rather fickle bunch.
- Yeah, I can imagine.
(inhales sharply)
Well, uh, some of the most
beautiful photographs
That I have ever taken
have been on a trail ride.
Maybe you might wanna consider
combining the two.
- On a horse?
A birdwatching trail ride?
How marvellous!
My followers will love that!
Richard and I are going
hiking tomorrow.
How's the day after?
- That's perfect.
I'll set it up.
(phone keyboard clicks)
- hashtag...
Birdwatching trail ride.
(chuckles excitedly)
Lovely.
(keyboard keys click)
(car rumbles)
(truck rumbles to a halt)
(engine shuts off,
door clicks open)
(door bangs shut,
hands rub against towel)
(door bangs shut)
- You grady?
- Who wants to know?
- I'm ty borden's
father-in-law.
Ty borden,
the guy you shot.
Jack: Hey!
We just wanna talk to ya.
- Here's how it's gonna go.
You're gonna do
the decent thing,
And you're gonna leave town.
- I'm not going anywhere!
I served my time!
I-I'm just trying to get on
with my life--
- Why should you get to live
your life
When ty can't live his?
I asked you a question.
Speak up!
- If you don't get outta here,
I'm gonna call the cops!
Jack: Now, you don't have
to do that,
'cause we're not staying.
You've said your piece;
let's go.
Listen, I told you this wasn't
the way to handle things.
You're making a bad situation
worse.
- It wasn't my fault.
J.D. Werth used me.
It was just an accident,
that's all!
- That's all?
- Yeah.
- That what you said -
That's all?!
Ungh!
- Oof!
Jack: Tim!
- Agh.
- All right, all right!
You shouldn't have done that.
- (breathes heavily)
(hard thud)
Remi barks in the distance)
(screen door creaks shut)
(doors click open)
- where were you?
(doors bang shut)
- gas station.
- Why did you do that?
Grandpa?
- Well, don't blame him, amy.
It wasn't his fault. He tried
to stop me, I didn't listen.
- (inhales slowly)
what happened?
- The guy has no remorse, amy.
You should've heard him.
Trying to make it sound like
he was the victim.
Now he's just going around
livin' his life
Like nothin' happened,
so I punched him.
No regrets.
(footsteps recede)
(screen door clicks open
and creaks shut)
(foliage rustles)
(birds chirp)
- Amy, I'm sorry that I...
Let that happen today.
I should've tried harder
to stop your dad.
But I'd be lying if I said
I didn't wanna punch grady too.
Believe me, I've imagined doing
a lot worse to him.
- So have I.
Does that surprise you?
- That you're human? No.
- I can't do this, grandpa.
I don't know how to live
in a world
Where grady wakes up every day
and ty doesn't.
- Yeah, I know.
It doesn't seem right, does it?
- Ty was so good.
(chuckles)
he travelled the world
To save endangered animals.
He... He danced with me
in the back of his truck
When we missed my school dance.
He was...
He was the best dad.
(tearful inhale) and now ty
is gone because of him,
And I hate him! I...
(inhales sharply)
- You can feel that way.
You can feel however you want.
- I'm angry.
(sharp exhale)
I'm angry at grady.
I'm angry at myself.
I'm angry at dad for acting
like such an idiot.
Why didn't he ask me
what I wanted?
- I know what tim did
was all kinds of wrong,
But we're not always the best
versions of ourselves
At times like this.
Often, we're the very worst.
(birds chirp)
- So what do I do?
- I don't have the answer
to that, amy.
Just... Just know that
I'm here for you.
♪♪♪
(crickets chirp,
water pours)
(kettle thuds lightly)
- You're never
gonna believe this.
Lou promised gladys
a mountain bluebird sighting.
Which, I did the research,
and they're extremely rare,
And so, the chance of seeing
one is slim to none.
So not only is gladys
gonna be disappointed,
But so will her
20,000 followers.
What's wrong?
Did something happen?
- The guy that shot amy and ty,
he's back in town.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
- Oh, tim, I'm sorry.
I don't even know what to say.
- Oh, I knew this day
was coming.
- What do you mean?
- (sighs)
Amy and jack basically buried
their heads in the sand
During the trial,
But I followed the whole thing.
Grady got a reduced sentence
because he was willing
To testify against j.D. Werth,
The guy that they were
really after.
And I wanted to get a lawyer
to make sure that... (sighs)
That grady didn't get off
so easy.
But amy...
She wanted to move on.
I just should've pushed
her harder.
I should've done more
to protect her.
- Yeah, but... Even if you had
hired a lawyer,
That doesn't mean it would've
made any difference--
- I should've done something,
anything.
It would've been better
than what I did,
Which was nothing.
(sighs heavily)
It's been a long day,
I'm goin' to bed.
- Okay, listen. Look at me.
- (sighs)
- this is not your fault,
And you can't blame
yourself for this.
You know that, right?
- Mmm.
(tim sighs,
footsteps recede)
♪♪♪
(crickets chirp)
(cover rustles)
(drawer rasps open)
(paper rustles,
drawer thunks shut)
(newspaper crinkles)
♪♪♪
(ripping forcefully)
- (sobs)
(sobbed inhale,
cries softly)
(sniffling)
(sobs)
(crickets chirp)
(sheets rustle)
♪♪♪
Tim?
Tim!
♪♪♪
(birds chirp)
(truck rumbles to a halt)
(engine shuts off,
remi barks in the distance)
(door bangs shut)
- (sighs)
(footsteps crunch)
(exhales)
(footsteps thud)
(footsteps thud on stairs)
- Hey, you're up early.
- Where have you been?
- I couldn't sleep.
I just went for a drive.
(sighs heavily)
- next time,
Take your phone with you.
- Yeah, sorry about that.
I wasn't thinking.
- Are you okay? Do you wanna
talk about it or...?
- I ca-- I can't.
I gotta get ready for work.
(footsteps recede)
♪♪♪
(hooves thud)
- Those the steers
we're treating for foot rot?
- Yeah, but I can handle it.
- Oh, come on, I came
all the way out here.
Might as well be useful.
(steers moo)
- Are we just gonna act like
yesterday didn't happen?
- I'm here to work, jack.
Hand me the meds.
(steers moo)
♪♪♪
(cards thwap,
clock ticks)
- I have no good cards.
You win, I lose. Again.
- That's it?
You're just giving up?
(screen door creaks shut)
jessica: Oh! I am so glad
I found you two.
Parker, I've been thinking
about what you said yesterday.
I agree, you girls are capable
of so much more
Than just menial labour
at the dude ranch,
So I have come up
with a special project
For you both to tackle.
- And what kind of salary would
this special project come with?
- I will pay you both
a $20 bonus,
But only one condition.
You need to help me find
a bird.
(hooves thud, steer moos)
(tim grunts)
Whoa! Whoa!
Whoa!
(tim grunts, steer moos)
(grunts)
(under his breath)
agh... Okay.
(grunts with effort)
agh!
(steer bellows,
champ snorts nervously)
(steer bellows)
- whoa, whoa, whoa, steady!
Whoa, easy! Easy!
- Get it ripped off! Whoa!
(champ snorts nervously)
(jack chuckles softly)
- (pained grunt) ohhh!
Ohhh! Agh!
(buddy nickers)
- you all right?
- Oh, I don't know
what happened.
The critter got away from me.
- Well, I'll tell you
what happened.
Your head's not in the game.
- (sighs) just get my horse,
please.
(sharp hiss of pain)
Oh!
(blows out his breath)
- What do you say, after we get
supplies at the feed store,
We go and get some... Broccoli?
- No!
- What?
- Let's get some ice cream!
- You don't want broccoli?
- Mm-mm!
- Oh!
(back door thunks shut,
passenger door clicks open)
All right, we'll see
what we can do. (laughs)
(gasps) hey! Hey,
what're you doing?
Stop!
Stop! Stop!
What're you doing?!
(door thunks shut)
(gasps)
Ty: Get down!
Ungh! Agh!
- (waking gasp)
- You fell asleep.
- (sighs)
Hey, sweetheart.
Mommy's just a little bit tired.
How's your puzzle coming?
- Almost finished.
♪♪♪
- Good news, we located
a mountain bluebird.
- Really? That was fast!
- We didn't actually find one,
We just did some online
research.
- A conservation group set up
a bunch of nesting boxes
Just outside of okotoks.
If you head over there,
You're guaranteed
to see a bluebird.
- Except for that I promised
gladys
A birdwatching trail ride here,
not in okotoks.
- Well, finding a bluebird here
Would be like looking for
a needle in a haystack.
It makes way more sense to take
gladys to the nesting boxes.
- Hmm... Maybe I was wrong
about you two.
- What do you mean?
You asked us to find
a bluebird nest,
And that's exactly what we did.
- No, I asked you to find
a nest on the property.
So, I'm sorry, no bird...
No bonus.
- But that's not fair!
- That is business.
Now, if you'll excuse me,
I'm gonna have to go and break
the news to gladys.
- Uh, don't say anything
to her yet.
We'll do some more research,
and see what we can find.
- Okay. The trail ride
is tomorrow,
So you don't have a lot of time.
- We won't let you down.
- Okay.
- More research? We literally
looked at everything
There is online about
mountain bluebirds.
We're never going to find one.
- What is with you today?
You're so negative.
- I'm just being realistic.
- You're not even trying.
Same with the card game earlier.
You gave up before
it was even over.
- Nothing ever works out
the way I want it to,
So why bother?
- (sighs) fine.
You stay here and feel sorry
for yourself,
But I'm gonna go earn
that bonus.
- (reluctant sigh)
- (whistling)
jack: You've got him, tim!
(lariat whoohes)
(steer moos)
- (grunts) hyah!
(sighs)
(champ snorts nervously)
- Champ is acting up.
- Yeah, that yearling gave him
a hard time.
I think he's spooked.
Maybe you oughta call it a day.
- No, there's too much work.
I'm fine.
- You're not fine.
You're distracted,
And I think we both know why.
- Am I about to get a classic
jack bartlett lecture
On why violence is never
the answer?
- No, you're not.
I wouldn't waste my breath.
You know what you did.
- Yeah, and you know
what you did.
- What's that?
- Nothin'! You stood there.
You treated that
trigger-happy idiot
Like he was a human being,
instead of the criminal
That ruined amy's life!
- What should I have done?
Punch him, too?
Run him over with my truck?
An eye for an eye?
- Exactly.
- Yeah?
How's that working out for ya?
- Just fine.
- Really?
'cause I saw you draggin'
yourself back to the ranch
At the crack of dawn.
You were out all night,
weren't you?
- I went for a drive.
- Yeah?
How'd your wife feel
about that?
- None of your business.
- You're right, it's not.
But what happens out here
with the cattle,
That is my business, and you're
not fit to be working!
- Gimme a break!
- Shut your trap,
I'm not finished!
If you want revenge,
hire that lawyer
You kept going on about
during the trial.
Fat load of good it'll do ya,
But if it makes you feel
better, go ahead!
But beatin' up grady,
or worse,
You're the one who's gonna
end up behind bars,
And I will not let that happen!
Amy's already lost
too many people.
I will not let her lose
a father,
Not while I'm still standing!
Do I make myself clear?!
(hooves thud as they recede,
champ snorts softly)
(steers bellow,
birds chirp)
(clucks tongue)
(water runs)
(faucet lever thumps)
(birds chirp outside)
(glass thuds lightly)
(box rasps)
(box lid clatters,
bottle thumps lightly)
♪♪♪
(bottle thuds lightly)
(bird chirps)
(engine turns)
(engine rumbles)
(gate clanks)
- here, boy.
(hay thuds on the ground)
- How's champ doin'?
- He's not himself.
(gate squeaks open)
- Grandpa said that
he got spooked by a steer.
- Yeah, he seems to think
it was my fault.
- Was it?
- Maybe.
- Well, I can start working
with him,
Build up his confidence.
- Okay, if you want.
(lead rope clatters)
- I don't like how things
were left off yesterday
About this whole
grady situation.
- I'm just here for the horse.
(champ nickers)
(hooves thud)
- (whistles) hup! Hup!
(steer moos,
champ whinnies)
Get up, come on!
(whistles)
Hup! Hey! Get up!
(steer bellows)
Good. Good boy.
- The steer's a little slow.
It's not really worth
champ's time.
- That's the point. This steer
doesn't pose a threat.
Once he builds
his confidence up,
Then I'll move on
to faster cattle,
But not until he's ready.
- Well, he's ready.
Champ looks bored
out of his mind.
- Dad, if this is too hard
for you to watch,
Then you can just go.
- No, I wanna be here.
- Okay, then let me do my job.
(lariat whooshes around)
hup.
(crickets chirp)
(cupboard thunks open)
(recycling bin rasps)
(cartons thud lightly)
♪♪♪
(sighs heavily)
(birds chirp)
(grass rustles)
- Katie?
- Yeah?
- (sighs) I need to tell you
something,
But you have to promise
to never repeat it to anyone.
- Okay.
- You know logan, right?
- Yeah.
- It's totally embarrassing,
But I thought he asked me
to go to the wedding with him.
- Okay.
- Obviously he didn't,
And I just made myself
believe he did.
And when he asked me to dance,
I thought maybe I was wrong.
But then, I found out
that jade put him up to it.
- Is that why you've been
so upset lately?
- Can't believe I'm one
of those girls
Who crushes on a guy
and obsesses about it.
It's so not me.
I just feel so stupid.
- You know what I think?
- What?
- Logan seems all right,
but he has nothing on you.
You're smart and funny.
You take on all these causes
because you actually care
About stuff that's bigger
than yourself.
Logan may not know it yet,
but...
You're a very rare bird,
parker yang.
- Rare as a mountain bluebird?
- (chuckles)
- Katie?
- Yeah?
- Thanks.
- Don't mention it.
Now, be quiet,
or we'll never find a bird.
- (snorts)
(steer moos)
(lariat whooshes)
(steer bellows)
(steer moos,
champ breathes hard)
- That's more like it.
(gate squeaks)
Champ's back to his old self.
- Well, he's definitely
improved.
- Can I give him a run?
- I don't think so, dad.
I think it's too soon.
- Agh! There's only one way
to find out.
Come on, bud.
(champ whinnies)
- hup! Come on.
Go on! Get at him!
Go on! Hup!
(champ whinnies)
Get up there! Hup! Hup!
Yah! Agh!
(champ whinnies)
easy! Hey!
(panicked whinnies)
easy! Easy!
Come on.
(champ snorts)
ho!
I know what you're gonna say,
it's not champ, it's me.
- You're angry.
I can tell, and so can champ.
- (sighs) aren't you angry,
amy?
- Of course I'm angry.
I would love for grady to feel
Just a tiny bit of the pain
he caused me.
But if I do that,
where does it stop?
Yeah, grady pulled the trigger,
But he wouldn't have been there
if it wasn't for j.D.,
So maybe he should pay.
- You're right!
- And what about the doctors
That discharged ty
from the hospital?
He obviously was in no
condition to go home,
So maybe we should
just sue them!
- We should!
- And what about me?
I knew that there was something
wrong with ty that morning,
And I didn't make him go back
to the hospital!
Maybe if I had of,
he'd still be alive.
(sobs) you know, dad, there
is a lot of blame to go around,
But I have to fight it,
'cause yeah, I'm angry,
But I am not gonna let it
ruin my life.
I have come way too far
for that.
- (emotional) I should've done
something.
I should've hired a lawyer
to put grady away.
I shoulda protected you.
- (shouting) you are not
listening to me, dad!
Grady is not a monster, okay?!
Yes, he pulled the trigger,
But he was not aiming at me
or at ty,
He was shooting at a wolf.
What happened, it was horrible,
And there's no way
to make sense of it.
- (tearful) I don't know
what to do.
I don't know how
to make it better.
- I don't know that there
is a way to make it better.
All we can do is keep going.
You know, after mom died,
It was spartan,
joining up with him,
That helped me connect
with myself,
And with horses.
(sniffles) and after ty,
it was lyndy
Who kept me from losing
myself again.
You need to find what works
for you,
Before your anger burns
everything down.
(receding footsteps crunch)
♪♪♪
(footsteps crunch)
(door clicks open)
(sighs)
(door thunks shut)
(bicycle bell rings)
(truck rumbles)
(door bells jingle)
(door clicks and creaks open)
(door slams shut)
- You know who I am?
We need to talk.
- What my dad did was wrong.
He should've never come here.
- I'm not a bad person.
- I don't know what kind
of person you are.
All I know is that you took
someone from me.
Someone who I loved very much,
And I have to live with that
for the rest of my life.
- Yeah, so do I.
Uh, listen,
I didn't mean to hurt you
or your husband,
But I'm sorry it happened.
- That's not good enough.
You took so much from me,
But not everything.
I have a good life
And I'm moving on with it.
So should you.
(footsteps recede)
(door clicks open
and bangs shut)
(engine turns)
(sighs)
(truck accelerates)
(truck rumbles and creaks)
♪♪♪
- My son has decided to spend
the day with me.
He's obviously feeling guilty
about dumping me here.
- Not the reason.
- Is it okay if he joins us
on the trail ride?
- Oh yeah, of course, I'll just
tack up another horse.
Um, but before we go, listen,
I wanted to tell you something.
I know that lou had
promised you
A mountain bluebird sighting,
but as you know,
They are very rare, and--
- jessica!
(hooves thud, horses snort)
- Uh... Uh, could you just
excuse me for just one sec.
(horse snorts)
- (whispers) we found one!
- You did? Are you sure?
- We can show you
where the nest is.
- (whispers) that is amazing!
And as I was saying,
Lou promised you
a bluebird sighting,
And that is exactly
what you are gonna get.
Thank you, girls.
Both: (sigh happily)
- off we go!
(latch creaks)
(champ snorts)
- (sighs heavily) all right.
Let's give this a shot, huh?
(champ nickers,
light pats)
(hooves thud)
(flag skitters over the sand,
footsteps crunch)
(champ grunts nervously,
hooves thud)
(champ snorts, hooves thud)
(birds chirp, horse snorts)
♪♪♪
(horse grunts softly)
(leaves rustle in the wind,
birds chirp)
(bird calls)
- (gasps) there he is!
(camera shutters snap)
(bird calls, wings flap)
Absolutely... (shutter snaps)
stunning.
(bird calls)
oh!
(wings flap,
camera shutter snaps)
(stunned exhale)
You were right about
this place, richard.
It's wonderful.
- I'm just so pleased
you're happy, mother.
- Stop slouching;
you'll end up with a hunchback.
Thank you for making
this happen, jessica.
I'm giving this place
my highest recommendation
On all my social media.
Prepare to have an influx
of birders booking in.
- Well, lou will be thrilled,
But it's really katie
and parker
Who deserve all of the credit,
'cause I put them in charge
of finding the nest
And they really delivered.
- Well done, girls.
- We also saw a great blue
heron not too far from here.
- Woo!
- And a ruby-crowned kinglet.
We can show you,
if you're interested.
- I am most definitely
interested. Lead the way!
That's it! Ooh!
- The last time I saw
my mother this happy
Was at my father's funeral.
- (chuckles)
- (clears his throat)
- (clicks tongue) let's go.
(champ snorts)
(chuffs rhythmically)
(hooves thud)
(truck rumbles down
the driveway)
(tires crunch on gravel)
(engine shuts off,
door clicks open)
(door slams shut)
(champ snorts)
(sand rustles,
hooves thud slowly)
♪♪♪
(hooves thud,
champ blows softly)
(nickers)
♪♪♪
- (sharp inhale) that's my boy.
Ck: There you go!
You got him!
- Got him!
(steer bellows)
- Agh!
Ho, ho, ho!
- Where's it at?
- (breathing heavily)
(champ snorts)
Ah! Ah!
(champ snorts softly)
I'm all done!
(can rattles)
(spray hisses)
Go on.
(steer moos)
- Good job. Good job, tim.
- Jack, I was wrong.
I never should've dragged you
to that gas station with me.
I'm sorry.
I'm grateful you were there,
though,
'cause if you weren't,
I probably would've done
something
That I regretted a lot more.
- Yeah.
If you didn't hit him,
I probably would have.
- I don't think so.
You're a good man, jack.
Truth is, I didn't have
a lot of those growin' up.
Didn't know what a good man
was 'til I met you,
So thank you.
And don't let that go
to your head,
'cause you can be real
self-righteous.
And bossy.
- Okay, okay,
Just go back to work.
- Bossy.
(footsteps thud on stairs)
tim: Hey!
- Hey.
- (sighs)
So?
How'd everything work out
at the dude ranch?
- Uh, it was a good day,
actually.
How are you?
- Had a good day, too.
- Good, I'm glad to hear it.
- (sighs)
I dumped this.
- (relieved sigh) okay.
- I shouldn't have left
the other night
Without saying anything,
I'm sorry.
- Well, you left me alone
in the dark.
- I know.
- Don't ever do that
to me again.
- I won't.
I promise, I won't.
- From now on, we face
the hard times together, okay?
Come here.
(light kiss)
♪♪♪
♪ you always have my back ♪
♪ woo-ooh, woo-ooh ♪
(birds chirp)
- Look, mommy,
a pretty bluebird.
- Oh! Yeah, I see it too.
(wings flap)
You know, your grandmother
used to say
That bluebirds bring happiness.
- It must be true.
- And why do you say that?
- Because I'm happy.
- (sighs happily)
you know what?
- What?
- (whispers) I'm happy too.
- (giggles, then squeals)
♪ you are the one ♪
(both laugh)
♪ oh, oh, oh... ♪
- I love you.
♪ the one I can lean on ♪
♪♪♪